esri/README.md, before:

# heatmaps for big spatial data with ESRI
Following along with https://github.com/Esri/gis-tools-for-hadoop/wiki/Aggregating-CSV-Data-%28Spatial-Binning%29
I demonstrate how to create spatial heat-maps with ESRIs tools and open source tools like qgis

## dependencies
We need the esri hadoop tools from https://github.com/Esri/spatial-framework-for-hadoop

Execute the following commands. Requires:
- java8 / jdk
- maven
- git
```
git clone https://github.com/Esri/spatial-framework-for-hadoop
cd spatial-framework-for-hadoop
git checkout c50c02d8d94f99b77df34aa3d57498aa8e23571b
mvn clean install
```

if you are on a mac and see a test failure like https://github.com/Esri/spatial-framework-for-hadoop/issues/141:
```
 expected:<1974-08-3[1]> but was:<1974-08-3[0]>
```

simply install with:
```
mvn clean install -DskipTests=True
```


>NOTE: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40369170/registering-hive-custom-udf-with-spark-spark-sql-2-0-0 you need to have
spark's hive capabilities to be enabled in order to registers ESRI's hive udfs.
## notes regarding spark
mini project to show how hive sql can easily be executed on spark

use `sbt console`to interactively run queries

or `./sync.sh` to run assembly

or `sbt run` but make sure to set `$SBT_OPTS -Xmx8G -XX:+UseConcMarkSweepGC -XX:+CMSClassUnloadingEnabled -Xss2M`
as spark will be launched inside sbt 

for development (in the sbt shell) `~reStart`

also `sbt test` is useful ;)

Commit message:

writing output - but fail to instanciate configuration

esri/README.md, after:

# heatmaps for big spatial data with ESRI
Following along with https://github.com/Esri/gis-tools-for-hadoop/wiki/Aggregating-CSV-Data-%28Spatial-Binning%29
I demonstrate how to create spatial heat-maps with ESRIs tools and open source tools like qgis

## dependencies
We need the esri hadoop tools from https://github.com/Esri/spatial-framework-for-hadoop

Execute the following commands. Requires:
- java8 / jdk
- maven
- git
```
git clone https://github.com/Esri/spatial-framework-for-hadoop
cd spatial-framework-for-hadoop
git checkout c50c02d8d94f99b77df34aa3d57498aa8e23571b
mvn clean install
```

if you are on a mac and see a test failure like https://github.com/Esri/spatial-framework-for-hadoop/issues/141:
```
 expected:<1974-08-3[1]> but was:<1974-08-3[0]>
```

simply install with:
```
mvn clean install -DskipTests=True
```


>NOTE: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40369170/registering-hive-custom-udf-with-spark-spark-sql-2-0-0 you need to have
spark's hive capabilities to be enabled in order to registers ESRI's hive udfs.

Unlike ESRi (serializing to json using custom hive serdes) I will serialize to WKT (well known text) which 
probably is easier to integrate into QGIs as well as the hadoop world (partitioning, orc/parquet

Run via the following command - optionally, you can specify some more spark configuration.
```
spark-submit --verbose \
        --class at.geoheil.app.SparkJob \
	target/scala-2.11/sparkMiniSample-assembly-0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
```
> WARN: currently, this will fail due to shading problems: https://github.com/pureconfig/pureconfig/issues/333

## notes regarding spark
mini project to show how hive sql can easily be executed on spark

use `sbt console`to interactively run queries

or `./sync.sh` to run assembly

or `sbt run` but make sure to set `$SBT_OPTS -Xmx8G -XX:+UseConcMarkSweepGC -XX:+CMSClassUnloadingEnabled -Xss2M`
as spark will be launched inside sbt 

for development (in the sbt shell) `~reStart`

also `sbt test` is useful ;)
